the Gulf State of Kata is where
mediators are trying to negotiate a
ceasefire in Gaza it's also where some
Palestinians are being treated for
severe injuries from the war DW special
correspondent a Ibrahim was in Doha
where she met with Palestinian medical
evacuees and saw the toll the fighting
has taken on the Gaza strips most
vulnerable a warning to viewers her
story contains graphic and disturbing
images
many ways 9-year-old Mahmud is like any
child his age he enjoys playing with his
father and beating his younger siblings
at video games during those moments he
is a happy
boy I am Palestinian I am patient I can
take a
lot I can endure
everything but sometimes as if out of
nowhere what he has gone through
overcomes him
his mother tells the story Mahmud
cannot Mahmud lying face down his head
was moving and he was breathing but his
right arm was not there and his left arm
was completely crushed he told me Mom
you take my sister and go I will be
murdered I told him no my love I would
never leave you he fell from my arms
twice I could not carry him at all
that was back in December mahmud's
mother tells me the family were heating
Israeli calls to leave the Northern
parts of the Gaza Strip then an Israeli
rocket landed near
mahm in the days after the strike
because of the anesthesia and fever he
was coming in and out of Consciousness
he was hallucinating when he woke up and
he would look at himself and ask me
where are my hands why am I like this
and he would cry I could not make him
stop so I would cry with him after the
he became like a baby again he needed
help with
everything slowly but surely Mahmud is
recovering here in Qatar along with more
than 2,000 other evacuees from Gaza most
of them are women and children many have
serious
injuries initially built to house
football World Cup fans this compound is
now a microcosm of human suffering
caused by a war Israel says is Justified
to protect its
people everyone here has a story of loss
and
tragedy in November Muhammad his wife
and two of their children were on their
way to a market in Gaza when they were
hit by an Israeli air strike he tells me
this video he says shows the aftermath
of the attack the boy being carried away
is his youngest bahat the woman lying in
the background is his wife bahat lost
his leg his wife died in the
hospital she was
everything she was
life but thank God she left me the
children we were civilians walking down
the street all our lives all we ever
asked for from God was protection
his son is getting treatment he misses
his mother and his siblings some of whom
are still trapped in
Gaza getting the family back together is
all that Muhammad can think about but so
far all his attempts have
failed as for little Mahmud in one sense
he's the luckiest of the lucky he was
able to get out with his siblings and
both of his parents it's a big reason
why they say he's having having mostly
good days but the memories of his home
now a pile of rubble are always with
him I'm used to being in my country
playing with my friends and playing with
my
cousins what I loved the most was
playing with my cousins I love
them we would ride bicycles together we
would play soccer together we would go
swimming we were happy
we had
fun mmud wants nothing more than to be
able to return home one day but the Gaza
of his childhood no longer
exists I'm joined Now by our special
correspondent a ibraim who filed that
report a you traveled to Kat to file
your report uh Kat is playing an
extraordinary role in events that are
unfolding in Gaza it's also where peace
negotiations are are taking place or
ceasefire negotiations are taking place
for for Gaza why is Kata 1 and a half
thousand kilometers away from Gaza
playing such an important role in events
there right I mean for a tiny Gulf State
one can say that it has played an
outsize role in a conflict that really
everyone around the world seems to have
an an opinion about and as you mentioned
uh Qatar has been one of the main
negotiator
in the ongoing uh uh um ceasefire talks
they were a key protagonist in The
successfully negotiated uh um temporary
ceasefire agreement late last year which
actually saw the return of the majority
of hostages that have been able to leave
uh uh Gaza they've sort of placed
themselves as the mediators of the
region they've become host to some very
unsavory actors so the Taliban famously
and now they are also uh you know the
hosts of hamas's uh political leadership
since 2012 since that leadership has uh
left uh uh Damascus and so they're kind
of playing on both sides if you will and
they've created a very important uh role
for themselves in the region and
globally as a result of being sort of
that diplomatic go between between the
west and some of the world's uh less
Savory actors um at the same time
including the Taliban that's correct at
the same time we've seen as we've seen
in that report the the the humanitarian
effort that they have done for the most
vulnerable in this War uh and it's a
logistical feat to try and bring these
medical evacuees out of the Gaza Strip
the Israelis are involved in approving
that the Egyptians because they usually
go through the Rafa border and from
everything that we've seen I mean
they've really taken on cases that
countries like Germany have so far for
example not been able to to bring here
for for various uh for various reasons
and and for the people that are there
that are getting that treatment that
means the world every single one of
these individuals is a whole
world why did you go to Kata and not to
say Israel or the Palestinian
territories to interview the medical
evacuations well really it's a it's it's
a question of access since the beginning
of this war and this is really
unprecedented um Israel has restricted
the axes of external journalists
International journalists like ourselves
from the Gaza Strip there have been few
imbeds with the idea of sort of in the
earlier phase of the War uh but these uh
you know these these these reporting
trips under the opice of the IDF are
heavily filtered of course um and this
is really um sort of an unprecedented
restriction of course we've been relying
on the great work of our Palestinian
colleagues who are you know fighting for
their lives and for their fam's lives as
they report but for us to really be able
to go there and bear witness to Bear
witness firsthand to the stories of
survivors that hasn't been possible so
far you know my colleagues part of a
much bigger team that's been on the
story since the Massac of October 7th
and the war and we've covered many
different aspects of it we've we've
spoken to Palestinians in East Jerusalem
and the occupied West Bank we've covered
the tensions within Israeli Society the
hostage uh tragedy the the agony that
their families are going through we've
spoken to evacuees from northern Israel
but really getting firsthand access to
gazans um we haven't been able to really
do that so far at you know in that
proximity and so it was really important
for us to go there and to be able to
speak to them and to try and really show
the path of uh of possible recovery
that's ahead of them and the challenges
that faces that population yeah thank
you very much that was our special cor
correspondent AIA
ibraim and we have Casey har on the line
with us now she heads up safe the
children's team in the Gaza Strip and
she jo joins us now from Gaza um Casey
we understand no one is immune from the
effects of War but why is this conflict
having such a disproportionate impact on
children
first my heart goes out to the families
that you just featured uh what they've
been through what they're suffering and
as you said in a horrible way they are
the lucky ones they've gotten out they
are somewhere safe over 14,000 children
have been killed in air strikes in this
conflict as a direct impact of the war
um we know that children are seven times
more likely to die in these blasts
because their bodies are smaller they're
thrown farther faster their bones Bend
um so they are more susceptible in these
strikes we also know that there are an
estimated thousand children living still
in Gaza that have lost a limb so they
are still here at threat of additional
attacks there's nowhere safe for them to
go um and they're trying to survive in a
nearly impossible situation for children
that haven't been caught up in the
direct attacks they're susceptible to
disease we're seeing tens of thousands
that have died from the secondary
impacts of this war from the collapse in
infrastructure from the fact that there
are not vaccines there are not clinics
um they can't access the most basic
Services now beyond the um ceasefire
deal what are children in Gaza in need
of most right
now we need a definitive ceasefire we
need the bombs to stop falling we need
air strikes to stop even in the
so-called safe Zone we're seeing
targeted strike so there really is
nowhere safe we need a defend
ceasefire with that we also need
supplies trucks haven't been able to
come across the border um at the same
volume since before the war we don't
have enough basic hygiene supplies there
isn't enough soap people can't stay
clean they can't uh eat sufficient food
nutrition is a significant problem
there's not enough fresh food there's
not enough meat children are eating
diets that consist largely of snacks
soda sugary food so we need supplies to
be able to come across the border in
addition to the definitive Seas spire
and we need those uh that have been
involved in this war to be held
accountable for the actions
here do you are you still able is safe
the children still able to fulfill its
mission in
Gaza we are doing everything we can but
it is getting harder and harder by the
day just in the last
week
this safe Zone that their so-called safe
Zone here decreased by 22% today there
were additional evacuation orders so
we're squeezed into an even smaller
space to try to operate and for our team
they are committed to the humanitarian
Mission our team here in Gaza we have
Palestinians that have been working for
us for many years even before the war
they're committed to serving their
fellow Palestinians but they also have
to worry about their families it's
getting harder for them to perform their
duties because they are constantly
evacuating they're moving they're having
to be to watch out for their own
children in addition to trying to serve
others
Casey her there from sa the children's
in Gaza thank you very
much thank you